Simmy docs (#1883)
App-vNext/Polly: docs/chaos/index.md

# Chaos engineering with Simmy

> [Simmy][simmy] is a major new companion project adding a chaos-engineering and fault-injection dimension to Polly, through the provision of policies to selectively inject faults, latency, custom behavior or fake results.

Reviewer: We should consistently use the term "chaos engineering" or "chaos-engineering" - the former seems the correct one to me.

Reviewer 2: There were only two places where `"chaos-engineering"` were used so, I replaced the hyphens with spaces.

Reviewer 2: Done

> [Simmy][simmy] is a major new companion project adding a chaos-engineering and fault-injection dimension to Polly, through the provision of policies to selectively inject faults, latency, custom behavior or fake results.

Reviewer 2: Done

> [Simmy][simmy] is a major new companion project adding a chaos-engineering and fault-injection dimension to Polly, through the provision of strategies to selectively inject faults, latency, custom behavior or fake results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Simmy][simmy] is a major new addition to Polly library, adding a chaos-engineering and fault-injection dimension to Polly, through the provision of strategies to selectively inject faults, latency, custom behavior or fake results.
```
As @martincostello suggested, I would drop the `Project`, as it's now natively integrated into Polly.

Reviewer 2: Done

> ![Simmy](../media/Simmy-Logo.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Simmy](../media/simmy-logo.png)
```

## Motivation

There are a lot of questions when it comes to chaos-engineering and making sure that a system is actually ready to face the worst possible scenarios:

* Is my system resilient enough?
* Am I handling the right exceptions/scenarios?
* How will my system behave if X happens?
* How can I test without waiting for a handled (or even unhandled) exception to happen in my production environment?

> Using Polly helps me introduce resilience to my project, but I don't want to have to wait for expected or unexpected failures to test it out. My resilience could be wrongly implemented; testing the scenarios is not straight forward; and mocking failure of some dependencies (for example a cloud SaaS or PaaS service) is not always straightforward.

Reviewer 2: Done

> **What do I need, to simulate chaotic scenarios in my production environment?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**What is needed to simulate chaotic scenarios in a production environment?**
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What is needed to simulate chaotic scenarios?
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> * A way to mock failures of dependencies (any service dependency for example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A way to simulate failures of dependencies (any service dependency for example).
```

Reviewer 2: Done

* Define when to fail based on some external factors - maybe global configuration or some rule.
* A way to revert easily, to control the blast radius.

> * Production grade, to run this in a production or near-production system with automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To be production grade, to run this in a production or near-production system with automation.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

## Chaos strategies (a.k.a Monkey strategies)

> Chaos strategies (or Monkey strategies as we call them) are in essence a [Resilience strategy](../strategies/index.md#built-in-strategies), which means, as well as a *Resilience Strategy* is the minimum unit of resilience for Polly, a *Monkey Strategy* is the minimum unit of chaos for Simmy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chaos strategies (or Monkey strategies as we call them) are in essence a [Resilience strategy](../strategies/index.md#built-in-strategies), which means, as a *Resilience Strategy* is the minimum unit of resilience for Polly, a *Monkey Strategy* is the minimum unit of chaos for Simmy.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

### Built-in strategies

|Strategy| Reactive| What does the policy do?|
| ------------- |------------- |------------- |
|[Fault](fault.md)|No|Injects exceptions in your system.|
|[Result](result.md)|Yes|Substitute results to fake outcomes in your system.|
|[Latency](latency.md)|No|Injects latency into executions before the calls are made.|

> |[Behavior](behavior.md)|No|Allows you to inject *any* extra behaviour, before a call is placed.|

Reviewer: Can you make the spacing in the table a bit nicer to read like the others with spaces please?

Reviewer 2: Done

## Usage

> It is usual to place the Monkey Strategy innermost in a Resilience Pipeline. By placing the monkey strategies innermost, they subvert the usual outbound call at the last minute, substituting their fault or adding extra latency, etc. The existing resilience strategies - further out in the `ResiliencePipeline` - still apply, so you can test how the Polly resilience strategies you have configured handle the chaos/faults injected by Simmy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is usual to place the monkey strategy innermost in a Resilience Pipeline. By placing the monkey strategies innermost, they subvert the usual outbound call at the last minute, substituting their fault or adding extra latency, etc. The existing resilience strategies - further out in the `ResiliencePipeline` - still apply, so you can test how the Polly resilience strategies you have configured handle the chaos/faults injected by Simmy.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> It is usual to place the monkey strategy innermost in a Resilience Pipeline. By placing the monkey strategies innermost, they subvert the usual outbound call at the last minute, substituting their fault or adding extra latency, etc. The existing resilience strategies - further out in the `ResiliencePipeline` - still apply, so you can test how the Polly resilience strategies you have configured handle the chaos/faults injected by Simmy.

Reviewer 2: Done

## Common options across strategies

All the strategies' options implement the [`MonkeyStrategyOptions`](xref:Polly.Simmy.MonkeyStrategyOptions) class as it contains the basic configuration for every monkey strategy.

| Property                  | Default Value | Description                                  |
| ------------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------- |

> | `InjectionRate`           | 0.001 ms      | A decimal between 0 and 1 inclusive. The strategy will inject the chaos, randomly, that proportion of the time, eg: if 0.2, twenty percent of calls will be randomly affected; if 0.01, one percent of calls; if 1, all calls.    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `InjectionRate`           | 0.001         | A decimal between 0 and 1 inclusive. The strategy will inject the chaos, randomly, that proportion of the time, e.g.: if 0.2, twenty percent of calls will be randomly affected; if 0.01, one percent of calls; if 1, all calls.  |
```

Reviewer 2: Done

| `InjectionRateGenerator`  | `null`        | Generates the injection rate for a given execution, which the value should be between [0, 1] (inclusive). |
| `Enabled`                 | `false`       | Determines whether the strategy is enabled or not.    |

> | `EnabledGenerator`        | `null`        | the enable generator that indicates whether or not the chaos strategy is enabled for a given execution.     |

Reviewer: Can you make the table rows equal-width with spacing here too please?

Reviewer 2: Done

> | `EnabledGenerator`       | `null`        | the enable generator that indicates whether or not the chaos strategy is enabled for a given execution.                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `EnabledGenerator`       | `null`        | The generator that indicates whether the chaos strategy is enabled for a given execution.                                                                                                                          |
```
